this video is sponsored by Squarespace
but first I need to speed up your render
Time by like a thousand in this video
I'm going to show you how to render much
faster important things is I'm using
default settings Default Resolution
default CPU default samples so
definitely we have some like
optimization to do let's say I go 30
frames down last frame I move this kind
of forwards a bit key frame now we have
an animation which means we need to
render 30 frames so the first thing
you're going to notice is this is
incredibly slow if you look at the
samples which is basically saying how
much compute are we doing until it's
done it's going one at a time and it's
so noisy and it's going to take forever
to resolve roughly this is how long a
frame takes multiply by 30 this is how
long your render will take that is
unusable first biggest optimization
obviously change to your GPU if you have
one so if you have a Cuda GPU like an
old one you say I'm using my Cuda GPU I
have RTX I'm going to enable Optics and
make sure that this is enabled already
you can see the samples are hopping by
like a factor of 10 or 20 it's going
substantially faster what is the
difference between these well let's
assume that this has a single core the
GPU however has thousands of cores let's
say our operation is adding one let's
say we're doing this 1 million times
assuming the CPU has one core it's going
to kind of batch this one at a time so 1
plus 1 is two you take that you add
another one three you do this a million
times the GPU however because it has
thousands of cores can kind of batch
these together I take 1 plus 1 this is
two I take 1 plus 1 this is two each
core gets assigned kind of part of the
problem which means in a single
iteration you've gone from a million to
only 500,000 operations to go and again
it didn't do 500,000 it did one it turns
out a lot of rate tracing and stuff like
this can be paralyzed or at least fed up
if we set this to a single sample you
get an image like this you set it to 10
set it to 100 even better I think for
500 you can get the same looking thing
and on top of this by default settings
we're going to get a passive D noising
which you're going to see this is what
it initially looks like and then D
noised it Smooths out a substantial
amount of that noise by the way you're
going to see every single frame it needs
to compute all this like order the
objects Etc enable persistent data to
get this to work you do need to start by
rendering a single frame I can now hit
render again this time the difference is
you're going to see these calculations
aren't going to go for as long we have D
noising enabled by default I do want
this however if you have a GPU enable
use GPU or even better if you have an
Nvidia card enable Optics next under
simplify this is going to let us kind of
remove all these extra subdivisions we
don't care about at no point do we need
six subdivisions at most we need three
what if we set it to one still can't
really tell too much of a difference I'm
going to set the texture limit in other
words every texture how big can it be at
no point should it be bigger than 2048
for calling just enable both of these if
our camera is right here this has like a
field of view of whatever and then
anything inside of this zone is what we
see however things like over here and
like over here are kind of wasted
compute will get rid of that distance
calling will get rid of things very far
in the distance and then under light
paths you're going to see fast Global
illumination approximation fast means
faster so I'm going to enable it and
under Advanced I recommend doing this at
timer this is just going to use a
different noise pattern on every frame
if you want you can enable scrambling
distance sometimes you got some like
artifacts I'm just going to enable it
for now we'll see if that's an issue the
way rate tracing basically works is you
have a light source basically this light
Ray is going to go towards some geometry
at which point let's say it hits the
stair it's going to bounce and then it
is going to bounce and then it is going
to bounce here you can see every single
setting this is kind of the control for
everything so if I set this to zero
you're going to see that this glass
becomes black so I'm going to increase
by one it's looking a bit better three
bring it up to four and now you can see
the glass is actually transparent
instead of 12 let's compromise at five
PNG is notorious for taking forever with
compression even if you have it at 15%
it's quite close if you have 100 God
help you so I'm going to set the
compression to zero I would recommend
using open exr not only does it save
substantially more data but it doesn't
have this compression problem so let's
actually do open exr set the Precision
to half dwaa is what everybody does it
doesn't seem like we actually need an
alpha channel so let's just get rid of
the alpha Channel now some of these
things have a lot of Geo more geometry
means more in memory means more compute
like this is ridiculous this is with
this is without I don't think we even
need it I'm to get rid of it let's get
rid of subdivision fine oh by the way
apparently there's a silly little model
in the corner who would have known if
you have four faces right next to each
other turning it into a single face
won't really make a visual difference
you can take it and run a UNS subdivide
command which generally works but it
might be a bit too intense instead let's
use a decimate modifier which will
figure this out for us so let's bring
this even further there you're starting
to see some artifacts so let's go with
45% once you're happy with this I'm
going to select more objects that I want
to run this with shift click the one
that has the modifier control L and then
link uh what is it link modifers and
then we can apply them I got a pee maybe
peeing will make the renders faster oh
yes this is exactly what I needed I was
feeling the the P uh sub optimizing
making it longer it was weighing me down
there are hundreds and thousands of
particles and light gets trapped and
that can really be an issue so inside
the particle system you're going to see
most importantly it has five segments
that means every single hair strand is
divided into five kind of like vertices
I think this is under curves I think we
can change it so we can bring down curve
subdivisions I think is how this works
as you render make sure you wireframe
this is actually going to use less
memory go to file go to clean up unus
data blocks get rid of anything there
same for recursive if there's anything
and you just want to basically go down
this list now this is where I start
getting a bit controversial the
resolution this can be reduced and you
might be wondering why would you do that
now you just have less image but what
this means is if I have a image of a
certain resolution when I set this to 50
it will make it 50% on the X and the Y
in other words we're rendering a quarter
but the upshot is once you have this
image different photo editors and also
video editors like d Vinci resolve so
even for video can super scale they can
2x the resolution but there's also
temporal kind of like savings so imagine
that this is a 30 frame sequence we're
rendering every single frame however one
frame to the next isn't that different
okay especially when the camera's moving
slowly what I'm saying is you can
actually Skip and we can interpolate
that back in you do this by taking your
frames 1 through 30 and you set the step
to two we're going to render not in
blender but actually in the command line
and I think this is basically the
command we want so it's going to render
a an animation blend file and we rename
this with our file we got to find the
blender executable which might be in
program files there it is blender
Foundation I'm using 4.1 so I'm going to
copy address I'm going to set path equal
to this path hit enter so now it should
know what blender is I believe and then
we are going to go to the desktop so CD
means change directory this is where my
file lives you're going to type in
blender DB the name of your blend file
for me it's Untitled blend d a for
animation hit enter and now it should
start rendering from the uh command line
and there you go I think it should
recognize it as a sequence it does okay
so in timelines create new timeline
instead of project settings let's go
we're going to pretend that it's 1080p
we're also going to pretend that it's 24
FPS I'm going to click create import
this in again it's going to go in times
to speed here we go to change clip speed
we're going to make it half speed so
that it's back to the 24 FPS but now
it's going to basically skip frames
rtime process Optical flow motion
estimation I don't know let's do speed
work when I go a frame down even though
before it skipped now every single frame
is like added 2x resolution so when I
enable this you can see all of the
sudden we get this kind of like boost
and sharpness add to render Q hit render
and compare it to rendering 2x like that
is instant and there you go those are
the tricks that I know of course this
was a very extreme example you might
want to keep it at a thousand samples
maybe not skip frames but that is up to
you and speaking of massive speedups
this video is sponsored by Squarespace
they make making websites super fast so
here's a demo this is you trying to get
analytics any other way without
Squarespace a little hard you want to
know where the people are coming from
and this represents trying to design
your website by doing all this HTML and
moving things and it's going to be
difficult with Squarespace you can just
move around blocks and it just takes
care of itself you can update at any
moment so this is without using
Squarespace easier to just use
Squarespace and finally if you are
running a business you need to have
people buy digital products or whatever
Squarespace offers easy payment options
that anybody can use we're talking
PayPal Visa Mastercard anything so if
you don't have Squarespace you're going
to be struggling I can't even close it
you are fighting an uphill battle can't
do it so head over to Squarespace and
design your website and when you're
ready to take that thing and launch it
you can save 10% off your first purchase
of a website or a domain there's a link
below